joining us live from Montreal Canada is
Middle East analyst muan Rabani can I
start by asking you this because you
recently wrote that the United States is
an active and complicit partner in
gaza's Killing Fields and that the Biden
Administration are proud even boastful
of its role do you think that Still
Remains the case given the change in US
rhetoric surrounding the Israeli
operation around Al shifer
hospital I think that's certainly the
case I mean we only have to look at what
American officials were saying yesterday
when Israeli forces were on the verge of
invading the alifa hospital uh compound
you had the spokesperson of the US
National Security Council John Kirby
coming out lying through his teeth with
a statement that us intelligence had
confirmed information that there is a
Hamas command and control center
underneath alifa hospital this wasn't
bad intelligence he knew he was
deliberately providing falsehoods to the
media in order to justify and support an
Israeli invasion of a Palestinian
hospital so I see no reason to uh revise
my assessment in any way I just wonder
to what extent I should just add if I
may I should the result of this of
course is that um the Israelis today
have treated us to the most dramatic
moment in television since Heraldo
Rivera broke open Al Capone's vault uh
in the 1980s and found absolutely
nothing yeah I just wonder how dramatic
um the Israeli military the Israeli
government needs things to get for them
to be able to declare at least a
strategic win what does success look
like for them do you
think I don't I don't think they have a
idea of what victory looks like I think
the one thing that the entire Israeli
leadership appears to be United about is
that there needs to be an orgy of
Revenge that they need to achieve a
Palestinian body count which is many
times higher than was the Israeli body
count on October 7th um and I should add
you know a very typical um Israeli
Israeli Warfare uh maneuver so you know
whether they managed to eradicate Hamas
overthrow its government these are all
things they would like to do I think
both the Israelis and the Americans
recognize that it's beyond the capacity
of Israeli Ground Forces so what do you
do you make the Gaza Strip unfit for
human habitation you destroy civilian
infrastructure you raise entire
neighborhoods or towns uh to the ground
and you kill um thousands and thousands
of people and thereby hope that in
future um uh these people who you've
colonized and brutalized will be
deterred from ever raising their heads
again you get the sense that the United
States is carefully watching the clock
when it comes to all of this of course
the US default position is to back
Israel politically militarily but we are
noticing very subtle attempts to get
Israel to moderate its campaign they
clearly seem to have failed how long can
the US let this unbridled violence
continue well I don't think that the
United States yesterday giving in is
giving Israel a green light to invade a
shifa hospital suggests that the US is
is pressing Israel to moderate its
campaign I will however say this and it
is speculative um but as you know um the
United States has been negotiating
through Qatar uh to examine the
prospects of a prisoner exchange through
which um civilians and dual Nationals
and American citizens would be released
by Hamas and others holding them in the
Gaza Strip Israel has thus far rejected
um this proposal it may well have been
the case that the Americans told the
Israelis we will Greenlight your
invasion of an shifa hospital and if you
don't find anything we then expect you
to sign on to this uh prisoner exchange
uh deal and and let it go through again
it's speculative but that may well be
the case if that is indeed the case we
could be entering a a wholly new phase
in this conflict um muan Rabani thank
you very much for your analysis thanks
for joining us thank you